## NYT::NFlow::TDynamicUnitedParameters&lt;NYT::NFlow::NStaticTableConnector::TSource&gt; {#NYT_NFlow_TDynamicUnitedParameters_NYT_NFlow_NStaticTableConnector_TSource}
<!-- This file is generated by yt/yt/flow/tools/generate_yson_struct_doc/generate.sh script -->
<!-- Before using doc generation tool check readme: yt/yt/flow/tools/generate_yson_struct_doc/README.md -->
Source: [yt/yt/flow/library/cpp/common/registry-inl.h]({{source-root}}/yt/yt/flow/library/cpp/common/registry-inl.h)

#|
|| **Parameter** | **Description** ||
|| `desired_table_process_time` | **Type**: [TDuration](./all_yson_structs#TDuration)
**Default value**: `1h`
The time to read one input table. The main parameter for controlling read speed. ||
|| `max_rows_per_second` | **Type**: `double`
**Default value**: `1000000000000.0`
 ||
|| `max_bytes_per_second` | **Type**: `double`
**Default value**: `1000000000000.0`
 ||
|| `restart_instant` | **Type**: `TInstant`
**Default value**: `1970-01-01T00:00:00.000000Z`
Set this parameter to the current time in ISO 8601 to forget the current progress and start reading static tables from scratch. You can safely decrease the parameter value without triggering an additional read restart. A restart happens only if the current restart_instant is greater than the last restart_instant that the source saved internally. This parameter does not correlate with static table timestamps and does not filter them for the read restart. ||
|#


{% cut "**Additional parameters**" %}

These parameters are for fine tuning. It is not recommended to change them without a deep understanding of the system.

#|
|| `unavailable_time_half_decay_period` | **Type**: [TDuration](./all_yson_structs#TDuration)
**Default value**: `10m`
 ||
|| `min_event_timestamp` | **Type**: `std::optional<unsigned long>`
Tables whose EventTimestamp is less than MinEventTimestamp are not processed. ||
|| `max_partition_count` | **Type**: [NYT::NYTree::TSize](./all_yson_structs#NYT_NYTree_TSize)
**Default value**: `10K`
Not recommended to change. An upper limit on the number of concurrently active partitions. ||
|| `throttler_period` | **Type**: [TDuration](./all_yson_structs#TDuration)
**Default value**: `10s`
Not recommended to change. Adjusts the window in which the read speed from a partition is controlled. ||
|| `desired_partition_process_time` | **Type**: [TDuration](./all_yson_structs#TDuration)
**Default value**: `10m`
Not recommended to change. Controls how large partitions the controller will create. ||
|| `desired_partition_rows_per_second` | **Type**: `double`
**Default value**: `1000.0`
Not recommended to change. Controls how large partitions the controller will create. ||
|| `desired_partition_bytes_per_second` | **Type**: `double`
**Default value**: `1000000.0`
Not recommended to change. Controls how large partitions the controller will create. ||
|| `read_timeout` | **Type**: [TDuration](./all_yson_structs#TDuration)
**Default value**: `5m`
Not recommended to change. Recreates the table reader if it returns an empty response within the period. ||
|#


{% endcut %}
