## NYT::NFlow::TUnitedParameters&lt;NYT::NFlow::NSortedDynamicTable::TSyncSink&gt; {#NYT_NFlow_TUnitedParameters_NYT_NFlow_NSortedDynamicTable_TSyncSink}
<!-- This file is generated by yt/yt/flow/tools/generate_yson_struct_doc/generate.sh script -->
<!-- Before using doc generation tool check readme: yt/yt/flow/tools/generate_yson_struct_doc/README.md -->
Source: [yt/yt/flow/library/cpp/common/registry-inl.h]({{source-root}}/yt/yt/flow/library/cpp/common/registry-inl.h)

#|
|| **Parameter** | **Description** ||
|| `table_path` | **Type**: `NYT::NYPath::TRichYPath`
**Required parameter**
Path to the target sorted dynamic table with the cluster specified. ||
|| `column_filter` | **Type**: `std::optional<THashSet<std::string>>`
Which columns from the message to write to the table (default &mdash; all). When using the `delete_rows` parameter, you must specify the key columns of the target table, otherwise deletions will fail. ||
|| `aggregate_columns` | **Type**: `std::optional<THashSet<std::string>>`
List of columns for which the aggregation function is considered during writing. By default, the value in the column is overwritten. ||
|| `delete_rows` | **Type**: `bool`
**Default value**: `false`
If set to `true`, rows will be deleted instead of inserted. In this mode, it is important that the key columns of the target table are selected in `column_filter`.

{% note info %}

A Sink can work in either insert or delete mode, but not simultaneously. If you need both insert and delete functionality, use StateManager.

{% endnote %} ||
|| `require_sync_replica` | **Type**: `bool`
**Default value**: `true`
If set to `false`, the presence of a synchronous replica is not checked when writing rows to the target table. The default value is `true` — the check is performed. ||
|#


{% cut "**Additional parameters**" %}


#|
|| `update_partition_count_period` | **Type**: [TDuration](./all_yson_structs#TDuration)
**Default value**: `1m`
How often the controller should update the number of tablets in the table (the controller changes the number of receiver channels according to the number of tablets). ||
|#


{% endcut %}
