## Changes to data types

Linear types were added.

## Changes to the built-in functions

* Added the `WithSideEffects`/`WithSideEffectsMode` functions for working with side effects.
* Functions for creating new dictionaries based on existing ones with content modification were added: `DictInsert`/`DictUpsert`/`DictUpdate`/`DictRemove`.
* Functions for working with mutable dictionaries using linear types were added.
* The `Block` function was added in order to execute a code block using anonymous dependent nodes.
* Functions `ToDynamicLinear`/`FromDynamicLinear` were added for convertation between linear types.
* Functions `LinearType`/`DynamicLinearType` were added for constructing linear types.
* Functions `LinearTypeHandle`/`DynamicLinearTypeHandle` were added for constructing linear types during code generation.
* The `LinearItemType` function was added on order to get the parameter type from a linear type.
* The `Concat` function was added for string concatenation.
* The `NullIf` function was added.

## Changes to the NOT NULL expression

* The `x NOT NULL` expression will generate an error instead of a warning. To fix this, replace it with `x IS NOT NULL`.

## Changes to PRAGMA

* The PRAGMA `SimplePg` was added for all functions importing from the `SimplePg` module to the global scope of functions visibility.
* The PRAGMA `Layers` were added for specifying the layers that can annotate individual UDF calls, rather than all operations performing in the query.

## Changes to the Udf function

* A new named argument `Layers` was added for specifying a list of required layers for the UDF.

## The SimplePg module was added {#simple-pg-module}

* It includes the `now`, `to_date`, `round`, `date_trunc`, `floor`, `ceil`, `to_char`, `date_part` functions.
* For functions available through the `SimplePg` or `Pg` modules, an extended error message is provided when they are used in the global scope of visibility.

## Changes to aggregate functions

* The `RANDOM_VALUE` and `RANDOM_SAMPLE` aggregate functions were added on order to randomly select the number of elements from the source.

## Changes to table functions

* The `PARTITIONS` and `PARTITION_LIST` functions were added.
